When it comes to contemporary business application programming there are three major programming languages that interest me and I feel would better my career within the Management Information Systems degree. I’ll be comparing and contrasting these three languages and their listing their differences and uses. These three programming languages would be Java, C, and Python.
The first language that I would like explain in detail would be C. C is considered to be a general purpose, or procedural programming language. Compared to other programming languages C is easy to learn, efficient, and handles low levels of activity very well, as well as being capable of being compiled on many different platforms easily. C is very popular in video game programming due to it’s faster and smaller code due to its non object oriented nature. C has extensions of it’s own language as well with C++ being it’s object oriented partner. When coding in C you must run the program through a compiler to convert the code from it’s language into a functioning executable file. Some uses for C would be creation of utilities, drivers, databases, and operating systems.
	Next I would like to explain Java in detail. Java is different from C in the fact that it is focused on object oriented programming. It works in classes rather than with basic functions. Basically object orientation is the use of objects in the language and code which are essentially chunks of code that are classified as a thing, or object, that you call to receive and run separately from the main code. It resembles C++ in some ways since that is C’s object oriented counterpart. Java has the advantage of reusability within it’s programming because of it’s object oriented nature, though writing efficient code in Java can become difficult for beginners. Java is also known to be slower than C at times. Some main uses for Java would be web applications and creation of Java applets. One of the biggest advantages of Java is it’s cross platform program creation, meaning Java can be run on most any computer outside of the one it was written on through use of a Java runtime environment. This being a separate program which handles and decrypts the Java code to be run on the hardware. Because of this, this means that Java is very portable and incredibly simple to hand off to others for use in comparison to other languages.
	I do not have any experience in Python as I do with Java or C, so I look forward to learning about that language more in depth in comparison. Python seems to be compared to Java and similar languages. Python is generally slower than Java, but the tradeoff for this is that Python takes less time to develop for. Compared to Java and C Python typically requires less lines of code per program. There is no need to declare arguments and variables. Like Java, Python also has a run time environment it runs off of for executing its code. Within Python exists a dictionary that allows code typed from it to be more natural feeling. So in short, Python seems to be a simpler coding language in comparison but more complex when it comes to running it’s programs.
	In regards to all of these coding languages, none is superior to one or the other, it is all a matter of preference and what the program the person intends to code needs. In conclusion, I look forward to learning more about Python in this MIS 407 class and hope that I can better understand it compared to the few languages that I already have a grasp on.
